pkg/client/go/arasauth/README.md, before:

# ArasAuth Go SDK

A comprehensive Go client library for the ArasAuth authentication and authorization service. This SDK provides complete access to all authentication, user management, group management, role-based access control (RBAC), and authorization features.

## Features

- **Complete API Coverage**: 42/42 endpoints (100% coverage)
- **Authentication**: Login, register, password management, token introspection
- **User Management**: Full CRUD operations for users
- **Group Management**: Complete group lifecycle management
- **Role-Based Access Control**: Role and permission management
- **Authorization**: Permission checking and role assignments
- **Type-Safe**: Strongly typed Go structs for all requests and responses
- **Context Support**: Full context.Context support for timeouts and cancellation
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling with detailed error messages

## Installation

```bash
go get github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/pkg/client/go/arasauth
```

## Quick Start

### Basic Authentication

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "fmt"
    "log"
    
    "github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/pkg/client/go/arasauth"
)

func main() {
    // Initialize client
    client := arasauth.NewClient("http://localhost:7600")
    
    // Login
    authResp, err := client.Login(context.Background(), "user@example.com", "password")
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    
    fmt.Printf("Access token: %s\n", authResp.AccessToken)
    
    // Get current user
    user, err := client.GetCurrentUser(context.Background())
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    
    fmt.Printf("User: %s %s\n", user.FirstName, user.LastName)
}
```

## API Gateway Usage

This SDK is specifically designed for use in API Gateway services where you need to forward requests from frontend applications to the Auth service.

### Example: API Gateway Handler

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "encoding/json"
    "net/http"
    
    "github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/pkg/client/go/arasauth"
    "github.com/gorilla/mux"
)

type APIGateway struct {
    authClient *arasauth.Client
}

func NewAPIGateway(authServiceURL string) *APIGateway {
    return &APIGateway{
        authClient: arasauth.NewClient(authServiceURL),
    }
}

// Handle user login from frontend
func (gw *APIGateway) HandleLogin(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    var req struct {
        Email    string `json:"email"`
        Password string `json:"password"`
    }
    
    if err := json.NewDecoder(r.Body).Decode(&req); err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Invalid request", http.StatusBadRequest)
        return
    }
    
    // Forward to auth service
    authResp, err := gw.authClient.Login(r.Context(), req.Email, req.Password)
    if err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Authentication failed", http.StatusUnauthorized)
        return
    }
    
    // Return response to frontend
    json.NewEncoder(w).Encode(authResp)
}

// Handle password change from frontend
func (gw *APIGateway) HandleChangePassword(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    // Extract token from Authorization header
    token := extractTokenFromHeader(r)
    gw.authClient.SetToken(token)
    
    var req struct {
        CurrentPassword string `json:"current_password"`
        NewPassword     string `json:"new_password"`
    }
    
    if err := json.NewDecoder(r.Body).Decode(&req); err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Invalid request", http.StatusBadRequest)
        return
    }
    
    // Forward to auth service
    err := gw.authClient.ChangePassword(r.Context(), req.CurrentPassword, req.NewPassword)
    if err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Password change failed", http.StatusBadRequest)
        return
    }
    
    w.WriteHeader(http.StatusOK)
}

// Handle admin role management from frontend
func (gw *APIGateway) HandleCreateRole(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    // Extract admin token
    token := extractTokenFromHeader(r)
    gw.authClient.SetToken(token)
    
    var req struct {
        Name        string `json:"name"`
        Description string `json:"description"`
    }
    
    if err := json.NewDecoder(r.Body).Decode(&req); err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Invalid request", http.StatusBadRequest)
        return
    }
    
    // Forward to auth service
    role, err := gw.authClient.CreateRole(r.Context(), req.Name, req.Description)
    if err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Role creation failed", http.StatusBadRequest)
        return
    }
    
    json.NewEncoder(w).Encode(role)
}

func extractTokenFromHeader(r *http.Request) string {
    auth := r.Header.Get("Authorization")
    if len(auth) > 7 && auth[:7] == "Bearer " {
        return auth[7:]
    }
    return ""
}
```

## Complete API Reference

### Authentication APIs

```go
// Basic authentication
authResp, err := client.Login(ctx, "user@example.com", "password")
user, err := client.Register(ctx, "user@example.com", "password", "John", "Doe")
err = client.Logout(ctx, refreshToken)
authResp, err = client.RefreshToken(ctx, refreshToken)

// Advanced authentication
err = client.ChangePassword(ctx, currentPassword, newPassword)
err = client.ForgotPassword(ctx, "user@example.com")
err = client.ResetPassword(ctx, resetToken, newPassword)
err = client.VerifyEmail(ctx, userID)

// Token introspection
introspection, err := client.IntrospectToken(ctx, token)
```

### User Management APIs

```go
// User operations
user, err := client.GetCurrentUser(ctx)
users, err := client.ListUsers(ctx, page, limit)
user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)
user, err := client.UpdateUser(ctx, userID, &UpdateUserRequest{...})
err = client.DeleteUser(ctx, userID)
```

### Group Management APIs

```go
// Group operations
group, err := client.CreateGroup(ctx, "Developers", "Development team")
groups, err := client.ListGroups(ctx, page, limit)
group, err := client.GetGroup(ctx, groupID)
group, err := client.UpdateGroup(ctx, groupID, &UpdateGroupRequest{...})
err = client.DeleteGroup(ctx, groupID)

// Group membership
err = client.AddMember(ctx, groupID, userID)
err = client.RemoveMember(ctx, groupID, userID)
members, err := client.GetMembers(ctx, groupID)
```

### Role Management APIs

```go
// Role operations
role, err := client.CreateRole(ctx, "admin", "Administrator role")
roles, err := client.ListRoles(ctx, page, limit)
role, err := client.GetRole(ctx, roleID)
role, err := client.UpdateRole(ctx, roleID, &UpdateRoleRequest{...})
err = client.DeleteRole(ctx, roleID)

// Role permissions
err = client.AssignPermissionToRole(ctx, roleID, permissionID)
err = client.RemovePermissionFromRole(ctx, roleID, permissionID)
permissions, err := client.GetRolePermissions(ctx, roleID)
```

### Permission Management APIs

```go
// Permission operations
permission, err := client.CreatePermission(ctx, "users", "read", "Read user information")
permissions, err := client.ListPermissions(ctx, page, limit)
permission, err := client.GetPermission(ctx, permissionID)
permission, err := client.UpdatePermission(ctx, permissionID, &UpdatePermissionRequest{...})
err = client.DeletePermission(ctx, permissionID)
```

### Authorization APIs

```go
// Role assignments
err = client.AssignRoleToUser(ctx, userID, roleID)
err = client.RemoveRoleFromUser(ctx, userID, roleID)
roles, err := client.GetUserRoles(ctx, userID)

err = client.AssignRoleToGroup(ctx, groupID, roleID)
err = client.RemoveRoleFromGroup(ctx, groupID, roleID)
roles, err = client.GetGroupRoles(ctx, groupID)

// Permission checking
hasPermission, err := client.CheckPermission(ctx, userID, "users", "read")
```

## Data Models

### Core Models

```go
type User struct {
    ID            string `json:"id"`
    Email         string `json:"email"`
    FirstName     string `json:"first_name"`
    LastName      string `json:"last_name"`
    Status        string `json:"status"`
    EmailVerified bool   `json:"email_verified"`
    CreatedAt     string `json:"created_at"`
    UpdatedAt     string `json:"updated_at"`
}

type Group struct {
    ID          string `json:"id"`
    Name        string `json:"name"`
    Description string `json:"description"`
    CreatedAt   string `json:"created_at"`
    UpdatedAt   string `json:"updated_at"`
}

type Role struct {
    ID          string `json:"id"`
    Name        string `json:"name"`
    Description string `json:"description"`
    CreatedAt   string `json:"created_at"`
    UpdatedAt   string `json:"updated_at"`
}

type Permission struct {
    ID          string `json:"id"`
    Resource    string `json:"resource"`
    Action      string `json:"action"`
    Description string `json:"description"`
    CreatedAt   string `json:"created_at"`
    UpdatedAt   string `json:"updated_at"`
}
```

### Request/Response Models

```go
// Authentication
type AuthResponse struct {
    AccessToken  string `json:"access_token"`
    RefreshToken string `json:"refresh_token"`
    ExpiresIn    int64  `json:"expires_in"`
    TokenType    string `json:"token_type"`
    User         *User  `json:"user"`
}

type TokenIntrospection struct {
    Active    bool   `json:"active"`
    UserID    string `json:"user_id,omitempty"`
    Email     string `json:"email,omitempty"`
    ExpiresAt int64  `json:"exp,omitempty"`
}

// Pagination
type ListUsersResponse struct {
    Users []*User `json:"users"`
    Total int     `json:"total"`
    Page  int     `json:"page"`
    Limit int     `json:"limit"`
}

type ListGroupsResponse struct {
    Groups []*Group `json:"groups"`
    Total  int      `json:"total"`
    Page   int      `json:"page"`
    Limit  int      `json:"limit"`
}

type ListRolesResponse struct {
    Roles []*Role `json:"roles"`
    Total int     `json:"total"`
    Page  int     `json:"page"`
    Limit int     `json:"limit"`
}

type ListPermissionsResponse struct {
    Permissions []*Permission `json:"permissions"`
    Total       int           `json:"total"`
    Page        int           `json:"page"`
    Limit       int           `json:"limit"`
}
```

## Error Handling

The SDK provides comprehensive error handling:

```go
user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)
if err != nil {
    // Handle different types of errors
    switch {
    case strings.Contains(err.Error(), "not found"):
        // User not found
    case strings.Contains(err.Error(), "unauthorized"):
        // Authentication required
    case strings.Contains(err.Error(), "forbidden"):
        // Insufficient permissions
    default:
        // Other errors
    }
}
```

## Context Support

All methods support context for timeouts and cancellation:

```go
// With timeout
ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), 5*time.Second)
defer cancel()

user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)

// With cancellation
ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
go func() {
    time.Sleep(2 * time.Second)
    cancel() // Cancel the request
}()
user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)
```

## Configuration

### Client Configuration

```go
client := arasauth.NewClient("http://localhost:7600")

// Set authentication token for protected endpoints
client.SetToken("your-access-token")

// Custom HTTP client (optional)
client := arasauth.NewClient("http://localhost:7600")
// The client uses a default 30-second timeout
```

## Best Practices

### 1. Token Management

```go
// Always set token before making protected requests
client.SetToken(accessToken)

// Check token validity before making requests
introspection, err := client.IntrospectToken(ctx, token)
if err != nil || !introspection.Active {
    // Token is invalid, redirect to login
}
```

### 2. Error Handling

```go
// Always handle errors appropriately
user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)
if err != nil {
    log.Printf("Failed to get user: %v", err)
    return
}
```

### 3. Pagination

```go
// Use pagination for list operations
users, err := client.ListUsers(ctx, 1, 20) // page 1, limit 20
if err != nil {
    return err
}

fmt.Printf("Total users: %d\n", users.Total)
for _, user := range users.Users {
    fmt.Printf("User: %s\n", user.Email)
}
```

### 4. Context Usage

```go
// Always use context for request cancellation and timeouts
ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), 10*time.Second)
defer cancel()

// Pass context to all SDK calls
user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)
```

## License

This SDK is part of the ArasAuth project and is licensed under the MIT License.

## Integration in Production

### Service Configuration

When integrating ArasAuth in your service, use environment variables for the Auth service URL:

```go
package main

import (
    "os"
    "github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/pkg/client/go/arasauth"
)

func main() {
    // Get Auth service URL from environment
    authURL := os.Getenv("ARAS_AUTH_URL")
    if authURL == "" {
        authURL = "http://localhost:7600" // fallback for local dev
    }
    
    client := arasauth.NewClient(authURL)
    // ... your service logic
}
```

### Docker Compose Integration

Example `docker-compose.yml` for a service using ArasAuth:

```yaml
version: '3.8'

services:
  # ArasAuth service
  aras_auth:
    image: ghcr.io/aras-group-co/aras-auth:v1.3.0
    environment:
      SERVER_HOST: 0.0.0.0
      SERVER_PORT: 7600
      DB_HOST: postgres
      DB_USER: ${POSTGRES_USER:-postgres}
      DB_PASSWORD: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD:-postgres}
      DB_NAME: ${POSTGRES_DB:-myproduct}
      JWT_SECRET_KEY: ${JWT_SECRET:-change-me-32-chars-min}
      ADMIN_EMAIL: admin@myproduct.com
    networks:
      - app_network
  
  # Your service
  my_service:
    image: mycompany/my-service:latest
    environment:
      # Point to ArasAuth service
      ARAS_AUTH_URL: http://aras_auth:7600
    depends_on:
      - aras_auth
    networks:
      - app_network

networks:
  app_network:
    driver: bridge
```

### Environment Variables

Required environment variables for services using ArasAuth SDK:

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `ARAS_AUTH_URL` | ArasAuth service URL | `http://aras_auth:7600` |

### Best Practices

1. **Always use environment variables** for service URLs
2. **Handle errors gracefully** with proper retry logic
3. **Use context with timeouts** for all API calls
4. **Cache user permissions** to reduce API calls
5. **Implement circuit breaker** for resilience

### Example: Production-Ready Service

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "fmt"
    "log"
    "os"
    "time"
    
    "github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/pkg/client/go/arasauth"
)

type MyService struct {
    authClient *arasauth.Client
}

func NewMyService() *MyService {
    authURL := os.Getenv("ARAS_AUTH_URL")
    if authURL == "" {
        log.Fatal("ARAS_AUTH_URL environment variable is required")
    }
    
    return &MyService{
        authClient: arasauth.NewClient(authURL),
    }
}

func (s *MyService) AuthenticateRequest(token string) (*arasauth.User, error) {
    ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), 5*time.Second)
    defer cancel()
    
    s.authClient.SetToken(token)
    
    user, err := s.authClient.GetCurrentUser(ctx)
    if err != nil {
        return nil, fmt.Errorf("authentication failed: %w", err)
    }
    
    return user, nil
}

func (s *MyService) CheckPermission(userID, resource, action string) (bool, error) {
    ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), 5*time.Second)
    defer cancel()
    
    hasPermission, err := s.authClient.CheckPermission(ctx, userID, resource, action)
    if err != nil {
        return false, fmt.Errorf("permission check failed: %w", err)
    }
    
    return hasPermission, nil
}

func main() {
    service := NewMyService()
    
    // Your service logic here
    log.Println("Service started with ArasAuth integration")
}
```

## Support

For issues and questions:
- GitHub Issues: [aras-auth/issues](https://github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/issues)
- Documentation: [aras-auth/docs](https://github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/wiki)

Commit message:

Add 'is_deleted' field to core models and update documentation
Introduce the 'is_deleted' boolean field to the User, Group, Role, and Permission models to support soft delete functionality. Update the README files for both Go and Python clients to reflect these changes and clarify the implications for authorization checks. This enhancement ensures that deleted entities are filtered out from queries, improving data integrity and application behavior.

pkg/client/go/arasauth/README.md, after:

# ArasAuth Go SDK

A comprehensive Go client library for the ArasAuth authentication and authorization service. This SDK provides complete access to all authentication, user management, group management, role-based access control (RBAC), and authorization features.

## Features

- **Complete API Coverage**: 42/42 endpoints (100% coverage)
- **Authentication**: Login, register, password management, token introspection
- **User Management**: Full CRUD operations for users
- **Group Management**: Complete group lifecycle management
- **Role-Based Access Control**: Role and permission management
- **Authorization**: Permission checking and role assignments
- **Type-Safe**: Strongly typed Go structs for all requests and responses
- **Context Support**: Full context.Context support for timeouts and cancellation
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling with detailed error messages

## Installation

```bash
go get github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/pkg/client/go/arasauth
```

## Quick Start

### Basic Authentication

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "fmt"
    "log"
    
    "github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/pkg/client/go/arasauth"
)

func main() {
    // Initialize client
    client := arasauth.NewClient("http://localhost:7600")
    
    // Login
    authResp, err := client.Login(context.Background(), "user@example.com", "password")
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    
    fmt.Printf("Access token: %s\n", authResp.AccessToken)
    
    // Get current user
    user, err := client.GetCurrentUser(context.Background())
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    
    fmt.Printf("User: %s %s\n", user.FirstName, user.LastName)
}
```

## API Gateway Usage

This SDK is specifically designed for use in API Gateway services where you need to forward requests from frontend applications to the Auth service.

### Example: API Gateway Handler

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "encoding/json"
    "net/http"
    
    "github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/pkg/client/go/arasauth"
    "github.com/gorilla/mux"
)

type APIGateway struct {
    authClient *arasauth.Client
}

func NewAPIGateway(authServiceURL string) *APIGateway {
    return &APIGateway{
        authClient: arasauth.NewClient(authServiceURL),
    }
}

// Handle user login from frontend
func (gw *APIGateway) HandleLogin(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    var req struct {
        Email    string `json:"email"`
        Password string `json:"password"`
    }
    
    if err := json.NewDecoder(r.Body).Decode(&req); err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Invalid request", http.StatusBadRequest)
        return
    }
    
    // Forward to auth service
    authResp, err := gw.authClient.Login(r.Context(), req.Email, req.Password)
    if err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Authentication failed", http.StatusUnauthorized)
        return
    }
    
    // Return response to frontend
    json.NewEncoder(w).Encode(authResp)
}

// Handle password change from frontend
func (gw *APIGateway) HandleChangePassword(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    // Extract token from Authorization header
    token := extractTokenFromHeader(r)
    gw.authClient.SetToken(token)
    
    var req struct {
        CurrentPassword string `json:"current_password"`
        NewPassword     string `json:"new_password"`
    }
    
    if err := json.NewDecoder(r.Body).Decode(&req); err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Invalid request", http.StatusBadRequest)
        return
    }
    
    // Forward to auth service
    err := gw.authClient.ChangePassword(r.Context(), req.CurrentPassword, req.NewPassword)
    if err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Password change failed", http.StatusBadRequest)
        return
    }
    
    w.WriteHeader(http.StatusOK)
}

// Handle admin role management from frontend
func (gw *APIGateway) HandleCreateRole(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
    // Extract admin token
    token := extractTokenFromHeader(r)
    gw.authClient.SetToken(token)
    
    var req struct {
        Name        string `json:"name"`
        Description string `json:"description"`
    }
    
    if err := json.NewDecoder(r.Body).Decode(&req); err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Invalid request", http.StatusBadRequest)
        return
    }
    
    // Forward to auth service
    role, err := gw.authClient.CreateRole(r.Context(), req.Name, req.Description)
    if err != nil {
        http.Error(w, "Role creation failed", http.StatusBadRequest)
        return
    }
    
    json.NewEncoder(w).Encode(role)
}

func extractTokenFromHeader(r *http.Request) string {
    auth := r.Header.Get("Authorization")
    if len(auth) > 7 && auth[:7] == "Bearer " {
        return auth[7:]
    }
    return ""
}
```

## Complete API Reference

### Authentication APIs

```go
// Basic authentication
authResp, err := client.Login(ctx, "user@example.com", "password")
user, err := client.Register(ctx, "user@example.com", "password", "John", "Doe")
err = client.Logout(ctx, refreshToken)
authResp, err = client.RefreshToken(ctx, refreshToken)

// Advanced authentication
err = client.ChangePassword(ctx, currentPassword, newPassword)
err = client.ForgotPassword(ctx, "user@example.com")
err = client.ResetPassword(ctx, resetToken, newPassword)
err = client.VerifyEmail(ctx, userID)

// Token introspection
introspection, err := client.IntrospectToken(ctx, token)
```

### User Management APIs

```go
// User operations
user, err := client.GetCurrentUser(ctx)
users, err := client.ListUsers(ctx, page, limit)
user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)
user, err := client.UpdateUser(ctx, userID, &UpdateUserRequest{...})
err = client.DeleteUser(ctx, userID)
```

### Group Management APIs

```go
// Group operations
group, err := client.CreateGroup(ctx, "Developers", "Development team")
groups, err := client.ListGroups(ctx, page, limit)
group, err := client.GetGroup(ctx, groupID)
group, err := client.UpdateGroup(ctx, groupID, &UpdateGroupRequest{...})
err = client.DeleteGroup(ctx, groupID)

// Group membership
err = client.AddMember(ctx, groupID, userID)
err = client.RemoveMember(ctx, groupID, userID)
members, err := client.GetMembers(ctx, groupID)
```

### Role Management APIs

```go
// Role operations
role, err := client.CreateRole(ctx, "admin", "Administrator role")
roles, err := client.ListRoles(ctx, page, limit)
role, err := client.GetRole(ctx, roleID)
role, err := client.UpdateRole(ctx, roleID, &UpdateRoleRequest{...})
err = client.DeleteRole(ctx, roleID)

// Role permissions
err = client.AssignPermissionToRole(ctx, roleID, permissionID)
err = client.RemovePermissionFromRole(ctx, roleID, permissionID)
permissions, err := client.GetRolePermissions(ctx, roleID)
```

### Permission Management APIs

```go
// Permission operations
permission, err := client.CreatePermission(ctx, "users", "read", "Read user information")
permissions, err := client.ListPermissions(ctx, page, limit)
permission, err := client.GetPermission(ctx, permissionID)
permission, err := client.UpdatePermission(ctx, permissionID, &UpdatePermissionRequest{...})
err = client.DeletePermission(ctx, permissionID)
```

### Authorization APIs

```go
// Role assignments
err = client.AssignRoleToUser(ctx, userID, roleID)
err = client.RemoveRoleFromUser(ctx, userID, roleID)
roles, err := client.GetUserRoles(ctx, userID)

err = client.AssignRoleToGroup(ctx, groupID, roleID)
err = client.RemoveRoleFromGroup(ctx, groupID, roleID)
roles, err = client.GetGroupRoles(ctx, groupID)

// Permission checking
hasPermission, err := client.CheckPermission(ctx, userID, "users", "read")
```

## Data Models

### Core Models

All core models (`User`, `Group`, `Role`, `Permission`) now include the following status fields:

- **`is_active`** (Groups, Roles, Permissions): Indicates if the entity is currently active. Inactive entities are not used in permission checks or authorization.
- **`is_deleted`** (All entities): Soft delete flag. Deleted entities are filtered out from all queries and do not participate in authorization.
- **`is_system`** (All entities): Indicates if the entity is a system-level resource (created during seeding). Frontend applications should prevent users from modifying or deleting system records.

#### Important Notes on Authorization:
- Only **active** and **non-deleted** roles, groups, and permissions grant access
- Users with all inactive roles will have no permissions
- Inactive groups do not grant their associated permissions
- The system filters out inactive/deleted entities automatically in permission checks

```go
type User struct {
    ID            string `json:"id"`
    Email         string `json:"email"`
    FirstName     string `json:"first_name"`
    LastName      string `json:"last_name"`
    Status        string `json:"status"`
    EmailVerified bool   `json:"email_verified"`
    IsDeleted     bool   `json:"is_deleted"`
    IsSystem      bool   `json:"is_system"`
    CreatedAt     string `json:"created_at"`
    UpdatedAt     string `json:"updated_at"`
}

type Group struct {
    ID          string `json:"id"`
    Name        string `json:"name"`
    Description string `json:"description"`
    IsActive    bool   `json:"is_active"`
    IsDeleted   bool   `json:"is_deleted"`
    IsSystem    bool   `json:"is_system"`
    CreatedAt   string `json:"created_at"`
    UpdatedAt   string `json:"updated_at"`
}

type Role struct {
    ID          string `json:"id"`
    Name        string `json:"name"`
    Description string `json:"description"`
    IsActive    bool   `json:"is_active"`
    IsDeleted   bool   `json:"is_deleted"`
    IsSystem    bool   `json:"is_system"`
    CreatedAt   string `json:"created_at"`
    UpdatedAt   string `json:"updated_at"`
}

type Permission struct {
    ID          string `json:"id"`
    Resource    string `json:"resource"`
    Action      string `json:"action"`
    Description string `json:"description"`
    IsActive    bool   `json:"is_active"`
    IsDeleted   bool   `json:"is_deleted"`
    IsSystem    bool   `json:"is_system"`
    CreatedAt   string `json:"created_at"`
    UpdatedAt   string `json:"updated_at"`
}
```

### Request/Response Models

```go
// Authentication
type AuthResponse struct {
    AccessToken  string `json:"access_token"`
    RefreshToken string `json:"refresh_token"`
    ExpiresIn    int64  `json:"expires_in"`
    TokenType    string `json:"token_type"`
    User         *User  `json:"user"`
}

type TokenIntrospection struct {
    Active    bool   `json:"active"`
    UserID    string `json:"user_id,omitempty"`
    Email     string `json:"email,omitempty"`
    ExpiresAt int64  `json:"exp,omitempty"`
}

// Pagination
type ListUsersResponse struct {
    Users []*User `json:"users"`
    Total int     `json:"total"`
    Page  int     `json:"page"`
    Limit int     `json:"limit"`
}

type ListGroupsResponse struct {
    Groups []*Group `json:"groups"`
    Total  int      `json:"total"`
    Page   int      `json:"page"`
    Limit  int      `json:"limit"`
}

type ListRolesResponse struct {
    Roles []*Role `json:"roles"`
    Total int     `json:"total"`
    Page  int     `json:"page"`
    Limit int     `json:"limit"`
}

type ListPermissionsResponse struct {
    Permissions []*Permission `json:"permissions"`
    Total       int           `json:"total"`
    Page        int           `json:"page"`
    Limit       int           `json:"limit"`
}
```

## Error Handling

The SDK provides comprehensive error handling:

```go
user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)
if err != nil {
    // Handle different types of errors
    switch {
    case strings.Contains(err.Error(), "not found"):
        // User not found
    case strings.Contains(err.Error(), "unauthorized"):
        // Authentication required
    case strings.Contains(err.Error(), "forbidden"):
        // Insufficient permissions
    default:
        // Other errors
    }
}
```

## Context Support

All methods support context for timeouts and cancellation:

```go
// With timeout
ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), 5*time.Second)
defer cancel()

user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)

// With cancellation
ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
go func() {
    time.Sleep(2 * time.Second)
    cancel() // Cancel the request
}()
user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)
```

## Configuration

### Client Configuration

```go
client := arasauth.NewClient("http://localhost:7600")

// Set authentication token for protected endpoints
client.SetToken("your-access-token")

// Custom HTTP client (optional)
client := arasauth.NewClient("http://localhost:7600")
// The client uses a default 30-second timeout
```

## Best Practices

### 1. Token Management

```go
// Always set token before making protected requests
client.SetToken(accessToken)

// Check token validity before making requests
introspection, err := client.IntrospectToken(ctx, token)
if err != nil || !introspection.Active {
    // Token is invalid, redirect to login
}
```

### 2. Error Handling

```go
// Always handle errors appropriately
user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)
if err != nil {
    log.Printf("Failed to get user: %v", err)
    return
}
```

### 3. Pagination

```go
// Use pagination for list operations
users, err := client.ListUsers(ctx, 1, 20) // page 1, limit 20
if err != nil {
    return err
}

fmt.Printf("Total users: %d\n", users.Total)
for _, user := range users.Users {
    fmt.Printf("User: %s\n", user.Email)
}
```

### 4. Context Usage

```go
// Always use context for request cancellation and timeouts
ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), 10*time.Second)
defer cancel()

// Pass context to all SDK calls
user, err := client.GetUser(ctx, userID)
```

## License

This SDK is part of the ArasAuth project and is licensed under the MIT License.

## Integration in Production

### Service Configuration

When integrating ArasAuth in your service, use environment variables for the Auth service URL:

```go
package main

import (
    "os"
    "github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/pkg/client/go/arasauth"
)

func main() {
    // Get Auth service URL from environment
    authURL := os.Getenv("ARAS_AUTH_URL")
    if authURL == "" {
        authURL = "http://localhost:7600" // fallback for local dev
    }
    
    client := arasauth.NewClient(authURL)
    // ... your service logic
}
```

### Docker Compose Integration

Example `docker-compose.yml` for a service using ArasAuth:

```yaml
version: '3.8'

services:
  # ArasAuth service
  aras_auth:
    image: ghcr.io/aras-group-co/aras-auth:v1.3.0
    environment:
      SERVER_HOST: 0.0.0.0
      SERVER_PORT: 7600
      DB_HOST: postgres
      DB_USER: ${POSTGRES_USER:-postgres}
      DB_PASSWORD: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD:-postgres}
      DB_NAME: ${POSTGRES_DB:-myproduct}
      JWT_SECRET_KEY: ${JWT_SECRET:-change-me-32-chars-min}
      ADMIN_EMAIL: admin@myproduct.com
    networks:
      - app_network
  
  # Your service
  my_service:
    image: mycompany/my-service:latest
    environment:
      # Point to ArasAuth service
      ARAS_AUTH_URL: http://aras_auth:7600
    depends_on:
      - aras_auth
    networks:
      - app_network

networks:
  app_network:
    driver: bridge
```

### Environment Variables

Required environment variables for services using ArasAuth SDK:

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `ARAS_AUTH_URL` | ArasAuth service URL | `http://aras_auth:7600` |

### Best Practices

1. **Always use environment variables** for service URLs
2. **Handle errors gracefully** with proper retry logic
3. **Use context with timeouts** for all API calls
4. **Cache user permissions** to reduce API calls
5. **Implement circuit breaker** for resilience

### Example: Production-Ready Service

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "fmt"
    "log"
    "os"
    "time"
    
    "github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/pkg/client/go/arasauth"
)

type MyService struct {
    authClient *arasauth.Client
}

func NewMyService() *MyService {
    authURL := os.Getenv("ARAS_AUTH_URL")
    if authURL == "" {
        log.Fatal("ARAS_AUTH_URL environment variable is required")
    }
    
    return &MyService{
        authClient: arasauth.NewClient(authURL),
    }
}

func (s *MyService) AuthenticateRequest(token string) (*arasauth.User, error) {
    ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), 5*time.Second)
    defer cancel()
    
    s.authClient.SetToken(token)
    
    user, err := s.authClient.GetCurrentUser(ctx)
    if err != nil {
        return nil, fmt.Errorf("authentication failed: %w", err)
    }
    
    return user, nil
}

func (s *MyService) CheckPermission(userID, resource, action string) (bool, error) {
    ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), 5*time.Second)
    defer cancel()
    
    hasPermission, err := s.authClient.CheckPermission(ctx, userID, resource, action)
    if err != nil {
        return false, fmt.Errorf("permission check failed: %w", err)
    }
    
    return hasPermission, nil
}

func main() {
    service := NewMyService()
    
    // Your service logic here
    log.Println("Service started with ArasAuth integration")
}
```

## Support

For issues and questions:
- GitHub Issues: [aras-auth/issues](https://github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/issues)
- Documentation: [aras-auth/docs](https://github.com/aras-services/aras-auth/wiki)
